


Preflight Checklist - Advanced
------------------------------

Airspace Assessment

☐	If flight will be nearer than 5.6 km (3 NM) away from airports, or 1.9 km (1 NM)
	away from heliports, call airport operator in advance to understand established
	RPAS procedures at that aerodrome and to secure permission.  Check app for safe
	flying zones. Check NRC Drone Site Selection web page. Check NAV CANADA's Canada
	Flight Supplements and Water Aerodrome Supplements.
☐	If flight will  be in Controlled Airspace or Restricted Airspace, confirm that
	drone is accepted for Controlled Airspace operation. Secure permission from
	airspace authority and understand procedures. Flights in Controlled Airspace
	will require an approved NAV CANADA RPAS Flight Authorization Request. Check app
	for safe flying zones. Check NRC Drone Site Selection web page. Check Designated
	Airspace Handbook.
☐	If flight will  be nearer than 5.6 km (3 NM) from a military aerodrome, ensure
	an SFOC has been approved. Secure permission from airspace authority and
	understand procedures.  Check app for safe flying zones. Check NRC Drone Site
	Selection web page. Check Designated Airspace Handbook.
☐	Locate other aerodromes in flight area and ensure flight stays out of
	established flight patterns of those aerodromes.  Check app for safe flying
	zones. Check NRC Drone Site Selection web page. Check NAV CANADA's Canada Flight
	Supplements and Water Aerodrome Supplements
☐	Ensure no impacting temporary aviation restrictions are in effect.  Check the
	NAV CANADA NOTAM site.
☐	Check visually and audibly for nearby low altitude air operations such as
	helicopters, seaplanes, hot air balloons, and ultra-light aircraft

Ground Hazard Assessment

☐	Take note of potential obstacles such as buildings, wires, trees, cell towers,
	wind turbines. Check maps for marked obstacles.
☐	Check for and plan to stay clear of land-based airspace restrictions, including
	police activities (eg traffic accidents), forest fires, or other natural disasters

Weather & Environmental Factors

☐	Check suitability of current weather and weather forecast for the duration of
	the operation (wind, rain, snow, fog, temperature
☐	Check that the Kp index is suitable for the flight (ideally less than 4)
☐	Check for and avoid potential dust or dirt clouds
☐	Determine the maximum safe range for the operation, based upon site details,
	current weather conditions, and battery charge

Bystander Locations

☐	If operation will include flying between 5m and 30m (horizontally) away from
	bystanders, ensure that drone is approved for Flying Near People.
☐	If operation will include flying closer than 5m horizontally from bystanders,
	ensure that drone is approved for Flying Over People.
☐	Ensure crew and other involved parties are aware of the flight and stand clear.
☐	If operation involves flying at an advertised event such as parades, sporting
	events, or outdoor concerts, ensure an SFOC has been approved.

Aircraft Check

☐	Check that drone is registered and registration number is on drone
☐	If operation involves flying in controlled airspace, near or over people,
	confirm drone model is approved on Transport Canada list for such operations.
☐	Check for damage, cracks, or other signs of potential failure
☐	Check propellers for cracks, deformation, or other wear.
☐	Ensure drone and control unit batteries are sufficiently charged for the operation
☐	Check that propellers, propeller guards, and other removable items are secure,
	and items such as gimbal guards and lens covers are removed
☐	Ensure micro-SD card is installed for camera recording
☐	Ensure launch site is suitable for take-off (level, clear of debris, nothing to
	interfere with camera gimbal, pad in place if required for mud or snow)

Crew Readiness

☐	Confirm that pilot is certified for Advanced Operations (or is at least 16 years
	old and under direct supervision of a certified pilot)
☐	Confirm that all flight crew members are fit to perform:  No alcohol consumption
	within prior 12 hours. No cannabis use for at least 28 days prior. Not under the
	influence of any drug that may impair safety. Not suffering from fatigue.
☐	Ensure all flight crew members (eg, Visual Observer) understand their roles,
	means of communicating with the pilot, emergency procedures, and the
	location/use of any emergency equipment.
☐	Ensure any other people involved in the operation understand to stay clear
	during take off and landing, and not to interfere with the pilot and crew during
	the operation.
☐	Confirm crew is aware of take-off plan, landing plan and back-up landing plan
☐	Ensure any special attributes of the flight are properly addressed (eg, FPV
	goggles, night flying)
☐	Ensure flight log is available to record flight
