


Preflight Checklist - Sub 250g
------------------------------

Airspace Assessment

☐	If flight will be nearer than 5.6 km (3 NM) away from airports, or 1.9 km (1 NM)
	away from heliports, fly carefully and ideally below 30m AGL.  Check app for
	safe flying zones. Check NRC Drone Site Selection web page. Check NAV CANADA's
	Canada Flight Supplements and Water Aerodrome Supplements.
☐	If flight will  be in Controlled Airspace, fly carefully and ideally below 30m
	AGL. Check app for safe flying zones. Check NRC Drone Site Selection web page.
	Check Designated Airspace Handbook.
☐	If flight will  be nearer than 5.6 km (3 NM) from a military aerodrome, fly
	carefully and ideally below 30m AGL.  Check app for safe flying zones. Check NRC
	Drone Site Selection web page. Check Designated Airspace Handbook.
☐	If flight will  be within a CYR Class F Restricted Zone, obtain permission from
	controlling agency.  Check app for details. Check Designated Airspace Handbook.
☐	Locate other aerodromes in flight area and ensure flight stays out of
	established flight patterns of those aerodromes.  Check app for safe flying
	zones. Check NRC Drone Site Selection web page. Check NAV CANADA's Canada Flight
	Supplements and Water Aerodrome Supplements
☐	Ensure no impacting temporary aviation restrictions are in effect.  Check the
	app.  Check the NAV CANADA NOTAM site.
☐	Check visually and audibly for nearby low altitude air operations such as
	helicopters, seaplanes, hot air balloons, and ultra-light aircraft.  Stay well clear.

Ground Hazard Assessment

☐	Take note of potential obstacles such as buildings, wires, trees, cell towers,
	wind turbines. Check maps for marked obstacles.
☐	Check for and plan to stay clear of land-based flight restrictions, including
	police activities (eg traffic accidents), forest fires, or other natural disasters
☐	Ensure you have permission to take off and land from land owner, particularly
	for National, Provincial or Municipal parks.

Weather & Environmental Factors

☐	Check suitability of current weather and weather forecast for the duration of
	the operation (wind, rain, snow, fog, temperature)
☐	Check that the Kp index is suitable for the flight (ideally less than 4)
☐	Check for and avoid potential dust or dirt clouds
☐	Determine the maximum safe range for the operation, based upon site details,
	current weather conditions, and battery charge

Bystander Locations

☐	Ensure bystanders stand clear of take off and landing operations
☐	Avoid flying over large groups of people
☐	Ensure crew and other involved parties are aware of the flight and stand clear.

Aircraft Check

☐	Check for damage, cracks, or other signs of potential failure
☐	Check propellers for cracks, deformation, or other wear.
☐	Ensure drone and control unit batteries are sufficiently charged for the operation
☐	Check that propellers, propeller guards, and other removable items are secure,
	and items such as gimbal guards and lens covers are removed
☐	Ensure micro-SD card is installed for camera recording
☐	Ensure launch site is suitable for take-off (level, clear of debris, nothing to
	interfere with camera gimbal, pad in place if required for mud or snow)

Crew Readiness

☐	Confirm that all flight crew members (eg, Visual Observer) are fit to perform:
	Not under the influence of any alcohol/drugs that may impair safety. Not
	suffering from fatigue.
☐	Ensure all flight crew members are briefed on the flight plan
